 JNDI consists of two components:
the client API and a driver. 

he components are layered. JNDI handles the
communication between the client and the service provider.


jndi api
5个核心包
javax.naming: This package provides the methods that enable you to access naming services and
defines the Context interface, the primary interface for interacting with a naming service. It also
defines the methods for you to look up, retrieve, bind, and unbind objects.
• javax.naming.directory: Just as a directory service extends a naming service, this package extends the
javax.naming package. As a result, you can still look up and retrieve objects from the directory
service, just as you would with a naming service. This package works specifically with directory
services to provide access to create, delete, modify, and search attributes.
• javax.naming.ldap: This package works with features associated with LDAP v3 directory services.
javax.naming.event: This package monitors a directory service for certain activities, such as the
addition of an object or the rebinding of a new name to an existing object. Modeled after the
JavaBean architecture, it uses event listeners. The following event listeners are available for your use:
♦ NamespaceChangeListener: Handles events generated when a namespace changes.
♦ ObjectChangeListener: Handles events generated within a naming or directory service when
an object changes.
javax.naming.spi: Used by service provider vendors to build support for additional directory services


Package
javax.naming
javax.naming.directory
javax.naming.event
javax.naming.ldap
javax.naming.spi
Description
Defines classes and interfaces that enable you to interact
with naming services.
Defines classes and interfaces that enable you to interact
with directory services.
Defines classes and interfaces that handle event notifications
when you’re working with naming and directory services.
Defines classes and interfaces for working with LDAP v3.0.
Defines the service−provider interface that vendors of
naming and directory service providers must implement.


jndi可用的服务端211
Service Provider
LDAP
COS
NIS
Description
Enables you to access directory services that use LDAP as their directory protocol.
Provides access to CORBA’s COS (Common Object Services).
Enables clients to access the Network Information Services (NIS) used in Sun’s
Solaris operating systems.
RMI Registry
Enables a client to use JNDI to search for objects and retrieve them from an RMI
Registry.
1
File System
Provides standardized access to different file systems regardless of the platform.
The File System service provider treats a file system as a naming and directory
service.
1
DNS
Provides access to a Domain Name Service using JNDI.
1
DSML
Provides support for Directory Service Markup Language (DSML). With this
service provider you can read and manipulate DSML documents as well as export
the directory data in the DSML format. (See http://www.dsml.org/ for more
information on the DSML specification.)
1
Novell NDS
Provides access to Novell Directory Services (NDS). (Check out
http://www.novell.com/ for more information.)
1
Available as a separate download from Sun.

jndi的应用场景
• User authentication and access control.
• Storage of objects, or object locations, in a distributed computing architecture.
• Corporate address books for e−mail addresses, phone numbers, and other information about
employees.
• Personalization data for Web−site users.




